# Autofill By Example
### Final report can be found [here](https://github.com/aryas0ng/autofill-by-example/blob/main/Autofilling_by_Example.pdf)
## Abstract
The expectation for proficient data manipulation and analysis skills has been coevolving with the volume and diversity of data over years. Despite the availability of analytical tools like Excel spreadsheets aimed at simplifying data operations, individuals with the need of data manipulation lack the requisite expertise. Motivated by the challenges individuals face when cautiously repeating manual calculations due to insufficient knowledge of data manipulation methods, this paper proposes a pipeline designed to automate the calculation for values based on only a few user input examples along with some complete columns associated with the column to autofill. Limited work has been done in this direction, possibly due to the varied domain knowledge required for specific autofilling tasks. While Gulwani et al. have focused on string formatting and developed programming by examples (PBE) and domain-specific language (DSL) techniques for autofilling, this paper concentrates on numeric value autofilling (in addition to some basic string formatting). This paper also attempts to offer a framework that from data cleaning to a user-friendly interface, which helps users who are less inclined to data manipulation to achieve their task and can serve as a starting point for people who want to develop their domain knowledge-specific tools.

#### Note: This repo is cloned from Cornell's internal GitHub for public access.
